---
title: "Go deeper"
---

The veneration of the Chimu Goddess Deity served an additional purpose beyond simply ensuring continued sustenance for the Chimu. Members of the elite Chimu class utilized religion to develop and maintain their power through stratified social systems. Once organized, the Chimu social hierarchy was ordered into three distinct levels: an elite ruling class, an artisan class, and a bottom class of commoners. Furthermore, specific deities were more closely associated with certain social classes than others which created a distinct separation between social classes. Additionally, the religious themes represented by each deity would have held a greater power ideologically if associated with higher social class, thus providing divine justification for elite rulership. For the commoner class of fishermen and farmers, the Chimu Goddess was viewed as a key deity figure. In fact, blackware objects such as the Chimu Goddess Vessel serve as evidence for intentional social stratification. The modular production process of blackware vessels allowed for blackware vessels to be mass produced and readily distributed to commoners throughout the empire. Due to the commonality of the blackware material, the elite class typically refrained from owning such vessels and instead relied on metalworks and adobe friezes to depict their respective deities iconographically. Since the Chimu Goddess Deity is only represented as a three dimensional head atop a blackware stirrup spout vessel scholars have concluded that the goddess was most important ideologically to the commoner class.